## IP Vulnerabilities

> ### ICMP Attack
Threat actors use Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) echo packets (pings) to discover subnets and hosts on a protected network, to generate DoS flood attacks, and to alter host routing tables.

> ### DoS Attack
Threat actors attempt to prevent legitimate users from accessing information or services.

> ### DDoS Attack
Similar to a DoS attack, but features a simultaneous, coordinated attack from multiple source machines.

> ### Spoofing Attack
Threat actors spoof the source IP address in an attempt to perform blind spoofing or non-blind spoofing.

> ### MiTM Attack
Threat actors position themselves between a source and destination to transparently monitor, capture, and control the communication. They could simply eavesdrop by inspecting captured packets or alter packets and forward them to their original destination.

> ### Session Hijack Attack
Threat actors gain access to the physical network, and then use an MiTM attack to hijack a session.

>ICMP was developed to carry diagnostic messages and to report error conditions when routes, hosts, and ports are unavailable. ICMP messages are generated by devices when a network error or outage occurs. The ping command is a user-generated ICMP message, called an echo request, that is used to verify connectivity to a destination.
Threat actors use ICMP for reconnaissance and scanning attacks. This enables them to launch information-gathering attacks to map out a network topology, discover which hosts are active (reachable), identify the host operating system (OS fingerprinting), and determine the state of a firewall.
Threat actors also use ICMP for DoS and DDoS attacks, as shown in the ICMP flood attack in the figure